Your face is so freckly, Tadashi!
Why are you so wimpy?
You need to train your body,
so you're in charge of carrying the bags!
Seriously? You're crying?
He cries over everything!
Crybaby!
Whatcha lookin' at?
Hey, isn't he a sixth grader?
No, he's in class 3.
That's so lame.
What'd you mean by that?!
Come back here!
What?
Y-You're lame, Four-eyes!
Idiot, idiot, idiot!
H-Hold on a second!
"Lame."
Tsukki might've actually been talking about me too when he said that.
But what mattered more
was how he could stand up to the bullies who kept messing with me by himself.
I was envious of how cool he seemed.
I wanted to be like that.
What about you, Yamaguchi?
What would you say to Tsukishima?
I keep running as I run out of breath
With dreams on my mind and a fire in my belly
!!
Haikyuu
Second Season
I feel like I'll be left behind in this world
If I come to a standstill
People ask me why I find joy in this
But I don't understand it myself
Running is the only thing on my mind
Even if nothing goes right in the future
I won't stop trying to find the best version of myself
Even if someone tells me that this is as far as I go
And draws the line on me
I'll say no, thank you, and surge on ahead
So what?
Whatever the future may bring
However people are supposed to act
So what?
It doesn't really matter
So I'm a believer
Episode Eight:
Illusionary Hero
I'm heading out.
Okay.
Good work!
Hey, Tsukishima!
We're gonna practice the synchronized attack, so stick around and help us out for a bit!
I can still go too.
There'll be three wing spikers, but that's fine, right?
I wanna get the timing down.
Wait... You aren't trying to make the roster, are you?
Don't think I'm gonna be warming that bench forever.
Bring it on!
Daichi, let's hurry up and do this.
Let me rest for a bit, man.
Good job!
Daichi!
I can't afford to take this lightly!
It's just a high school club.
Miyagi Prefecture Junior High Comprehensive Gymnastics Tournament
Volleyball Match
Miyagi Prefectural Junior High Comprehensive Gymnastics Tournament
Left! Left!
Number four!
Wow! It's Tsukishima again!
That's why he's the ace!
Hey!
Tsukishima, nice spike!
All right!
Amemaru Junior High
Volleyball Team
Where are you gonna go for high school, Big Bro?
Karasuno.
They're a powerhouse school that can
compete with the likes of Shiratorizawa.
I'm gonna make it to nationals for sure!
I'm home.
Welcome back!
You stayed late for personal practice again?
Everyone's really good, so I can't just sit around.
Not to mention, Coach Ukai is really strict.
But...
I'm aiming to make the roster as a first-year!
There are tons of people on the team, right?
It'd be awesome if you could make the roster.
Right?
Mom!
Welcome home.
Make me three lunches again tomorrow!
One for morning practice, one for lunch, and one for before team practice!
Got it. High in protein and low in fat, right?
Yep! Thanks!
Today, the butcher lady said, "Your big brother is
on the Karasuno volleyball team? That's incredible!"
You have a match tomorrow, right?
Can I come watch?
I'll get nervous if you watch, so nope!
Aw...
Hey, what position do you play now?
The same as junior high?
Yeah.
So you're the ace!
Yep!
What about you, Kei?
You just joined a youth team, right?
I hate receiving.
When you're just starting out,
the ball doesn't go where you want, does it?
Here, get into position.
Here we go.
Kei, don't try to push it up with your arms.
More like this. Lower your hips,
and send it out with your entire body.
Try tossing it to me.
Wow!
Receiving is where it all begins in volleyball.
Everything is about keeping the ball in play.
Are you getting along with the other kids?
Yeah...
Liar!
It's written all over your face!
Hello.
U-Um...
Thank you for the other day.
Have we met?
The... other day... a-at the park... The park...
Oh. So, what are you doing here?
Oh, um...
Well, I wanted to play some sport too...
There are a lot of scary guys in baseball and soccer,
but this seemed safe.
Those shoes are awesome!
I still only have the school-issued gym shoes.
They're hand-me-downs.
I'm using my brother's until I get new ones next week.
Your brother plays volleyball too?
He plays at a real powerhouse high school called Karasuno.
He's like the ace.
Th-The ace of a powerhouse?!
Th-That's so awesome!
N-Not really. It's not that big of a deal.
He was the ace in junior high too.
Wow!
How long has he been playing?
Did he play on this team?
Aces are so cool!
I'm home.
Did your practice match today go well?
Yeah, it went great!
I scored a ton!
That's cool.
Let's practice passing.
After we're done eating.
Yamaguchi.
What's the next class?
Japanese!
I'm gonna go to Karasuno's match tomorrow. Do you wanna come too?
What, it's Japanese?
My brother keeps telling me not
to come because he gets nervous,
but since my brother's a third-year,
this will be the last match he plays in the prefecture.
I'll go!
I've never seen Akiteru play.
Tsukishima, your brother's on
Karasuno's volleyball team too?
So is mine.
What position does your brother play?
Wing spiker.
Hey! So does mine.
They have a deep roster, so it's always really tough.
If you can't even play in matches, you really have to wonder if going to a powerhouse school is worth it.
Tsukki's brother plays in the matches.
What? No way.
I saw a match recently,
and no one named Tsukishima was on the roster.
That's impossible.
I hear about the matches all the time.
You're probably just mistaken.
You can see for yourself at the match.
Yeah, I can.
Miyagi Prefecture
High School
Volleyball Match (Boys)
Miyagi Prefecture
High School
Volleyball Match (Boys)
One more!
Nice receive!
They're going left! Left!
Yes!
That's awesome! Number ten did it again!
He's barely 170 cm too!
And he's still a second-year, right?
See?
Their left wing spiker is Kawada, a third-year,
and they have another one who's a second-year called the Little Giant!
That's how it's been for a year now!
We get it already!
We can see that...
My brother's also a third-year who
hasn't gotten to play in any matches.
Slice.
It wasn't like a TV show or movie,
where there are spurts of blood and heads go flying.
This was far more shocking.
My brother wasn't on the court.
One more!
Give us a good serve!
How lame.
It was just a high school club,
but for me, that team and volleyball felt like they were everything my brother stood for.
In the end, it made him tell pointless lies.
So you're the ace!
Yep!
But he was probably trying to believe in it himself.
That if he tried hard enough, it would come true.
But so what if it did?
Would it be worth the struggle?
Tsukki!
What?
You've always handled everything in a cool and smart way.
I was always jealous of you.
And?
But lately, you're just lame!
So what if Hinata might become the Little Giant some day?
That only means you have to beat him, Tsukki!
You should prove with your skill
that you're better than Hinata is!
You have the height, brains, and instinct,
so why did you decide that improving is impossible?!
Even if I worked really hard and became the best
player on the team, what would happen after that?
Even if we somehow made it to nationals,
what comes next?
There's always someone better.
Even if you're able to show some results somewhere,
you'll never actually be number one!
You're gonna lose eventually!
Everyone knows that, so how can they keep going?!
What the hell do you need besides your own pride?!
I never imagined this day would come.
When the hell did you get so cool?
You're really cool.
T-Tsukki? What's wrong?
At the very least, it's better than my worn-out train of thought.
But I'm not convinced by that.
Huh?
I'm gonna go ask something.
Tsukki?!
You know, Daichi...
Yeah?
You sure it's okay to leave Tsukishima alone?
If we force him to do it, it won't be personal training.
I know that, but...
Ever since that very first three-on-three, I've never been that worried about him.
Though, if Tsukishima starts saying that he wants to quit,
then I'll panic and try to stop him.
If that happens, I'm trusting you to come help, okay?
I don't know what's going on inside his head.
But we're still growing as a team,
and we don't know the limits of our skill.
Even if we were to start pressing up against that limit,
we couldn't help but aim for the very top.
Even though there was no rhyme or reason, we'd keep going.
Indeed.
!!
Haikyuu
Second Season
!!
Haikyuu
Second Season
First Gymnasium
Yamaguchi said something in a weird voice as he ran off. I wonder if he's okay.
Weird voice?
"Tsukki!" Like that.
Oh, so he went to see Tsukishima.
Did something happen?
Yeah. He seemed kinda worried about Tsukishima.
I see.
Tsukishima never does anything that's lame.
He never fails at tests.
He always does things like, "whoosh"!
And "swish"!
Yeah...
What exactly is the difference
between "whoosh" and "swish"?
So I think he'll be okay.
It's obvious that being good at volleyball is way cooler than sucking at it!
Third Gymnasium
Oh?
What's this?
What do we have here?
There's something I'd like to ask you. May I?
Sure!
Thank you very much.
Both of your schools are occasionally considered powerhouses, right?
I guess, yeah.
Even if you were able to make it to nationals,
actually winning there would be difficult, right?
But not impossible!
Now, now, let's hear him out.
This is just a hypothetical.
I'm genuinely curious about this.
Why do you try so hard?
Volleyball is just a club, and maybe you'll get to write,
"I worked really hard in my high school club,"
on your resume, right?
"Merely a club"?
That almost sounds like someone's name.
Oh, like "Merliah Clubb"?
No, wait. You heard him wrong! He said "just a club"!
Aw man!
So it doesn't sound like someone's name. Man, I was so close! Damn it!
Man, it's no good.
Should I say something here?
What about Justa Clubb?
Nah. There'll be no end to it.
Say, Specky.
It's Tsukishima.
Say, Tsukishima!
Is volleyball fun?
No, not really...
Maybe that's because you suck at it?
I'm a third-year, and I've been to nationals.
I'm better than you. Way better than you!
You don't have to tell me that.
But I only recently started thinking that volleyball was fun.
Ever since my straight spike became usable in matches, I've found it fun.
Straight
I've always been good at landing cross-court shots,
but blockers started stopping it.
Cross
I got frustrated and practiced the hell out of straight spikes.
And then...
at the next tournament, I didn't let the same blockers touch the ball at all. I hit it right past them.
Just that one spike made me feel like my time to shine had finally come.
It's all about whether or not you have a moment like that.
What happens in the future,
if you can win the next match...
None of that matters.
Crushing the guy in front of you and the
exhilaration of giving 120% are everything.
Well, that's what's it's like for me.
It might not fit for anyone and everyone.
I don't really understand why you say it's
"just a club," but I don't think you're wrong.
But if you ever experience that moment,
that's when you'll be hooked on volleyball.
Okay.
I answered your question. Now, help with blocking.
Now, now. Hurry, hurry.
Wait, um... Hold on...
Oh, Yamaguchi came back.
Yamaguchi, where's Tsukishima?
One more!
Let's go!
It looks like he got caught by the
Nekoma and Fukurodani captains.
What?! I'm so jealous.
Maybe I'll go too.
Hinata, do you think of Tsukki as your rival?
Huh?
Of course I do!
We play the same position,
and he has everything I'm lacking!
But I'm not gonna lose to him!
I've gotta practice!
Captain! I'm joining in!
If Hinata and Tsukishima are rivals, it's like the sun versus the moon.
Sure.
"Sun" from "Hi" and "Moon" from "Tsuki."
Yeah, you're right!
Yeah!
I hope that happens.
Number four!
Eek...
All right!
That number four is really intense again today.
Sir.
Fukurodani                 Karasuno
All right!
Even if you're not able to stop number four's spikes,
at least try to touch the ball.
Right!
I see.
Even if they aren't able to stop it,
if it hits their hand, the ball loses momentum?
Right.
There are fundamentally two ways of blocking.
There's the soft block that's used in order to make the ball easier to receive,
and the kill block that's used to completely shut the ball out.
Kill? As in, killing something?
Yes.
Eek!
We don't have to stop it?
No.
If you're able to actually shut the ball out,
that'd be perfect.
All right!
Fukurodani                 Karasuno
Nice receive!
Give it to me!
Left! Number four!
Start by thinking about what you need to do.
Focus your strength in your fingertips so
that they won't be blown away by the ball.
And put your hands in front of you, not over your head.
In front.
After that, make this annoying owl shut up!
Just you try!
Um... a soft block that reduces the ball's momentum, and...
The kind which completely kills the momentum...
He tipped it!
Damn it!
Wow, I thought he was definitely
going to hit it as hard as he could!
But it was actually a diversion.
He truly is a nationals-caliber ace.
Daichi, did you see that?
Yeah.
Bokuto, you fled from the competition.
I didn't flee! I avoided the competition!
I skillfully avoided the block!
You got caught off guard.
Oh, fine!
Yeah, yeah, sorry about that!
Well, now...
Perhaps the troublesome baby bird is starting to come out of his shell.
Oh...
The sun versus the moon?
We climb the mountain in our way
Losing more than just time in the process
Tasting freedom makes us want to fly
And notice the feelings welling up inside
It's almost in our reach
The closer we get, the more it shines
And stretches out in front of our eyes
That panorama created just for us
Until I reach the top and come back down, my lungs will keep breathing
But now I've been possessed by the desire to climb that summit once again
We cast aside all our doubt and set flight to the skies
Our flailing hands reach out and grab hold of the moment
That special moment
Come to us climbers
Come to us right now
Come block some balls for us, Tsukki!
Could you please not call me that?
Then... how about Specky?
All right, let's do this thing, Akaasshi!
Somehow, I got roped into all of this...
Episode Nine:
Vs. "Umbrella"
Next time on Haikyuu!!:
"Vs. 'Umbrella.'"